So with that in mind, when should we be
doing this kind of research and testing?
I'm saying there's lots of opportunities.
Well, what are these opportunities?
When your time and budget is limited,
picking the most appropriate moments to do
testing and research is crucial, right?
The worst thing you can
do is save it all up.
First of all, when it comes to
user research in particular,
and testing, actually,
applies to both, avoid testing and
doing research for the sake of it, right?
So, one of the things that I come across
all the time is people have read stuff
online, right, they says you should
begin with a discovery phase.
And in the discovery phase,
you should do user research.
And once you've built a prototype,
you should test, and so people get to
these points in the project plan, and they
go, right, I've got to do user research.
And then they do a load of use of
research without a good reason,
[LAUGH] without a specific thing in
their mind that they wanna know.
We've got this tendency to carry out user
research because that's what you're meant
to do without any clear reason why, right?
So don't do a comprehensive discovery
phase without having a clear idea, for
example, of what you wanna discuss, right?
What you wanna know, general background
research doesn't really provide
the best return on an investment, right?
Instead, you wanna get answers
to unanswered questions.
So you've got a load of research
previous stuff, you've been briefed and
all the rest of it, write down a list of
things you wanna know that you don't know,
that's where you should
be doing user research.
So things like this, right,
who are my audience?
What are their top tasks?
What are the user goals?
You can read what's on the screen.
These are the kinds of questions that
pop into my head when I'm working on
a project,
why I wanna know this kind of stuff.
Some of it I'll have been told, in which
case I don't need to bother researching
it, some of it won't have
been clearly answered.
So for example, you're almost always told
who your audience is, but you never know
what their top tasks are, what the most
important things they wanna do are, right?
They're never told that kind of thing.
So it's kind of working out
what you need answers to, and
that applies throughout the project,
right?
So as a question comes up, then do a
little bit of research or a little bit of
testing, rather than having this kind of
formal process that you pass through.
And I'm not criticizing
those formal processes,
I'm not criticizing discovery phases or
anything like that,
I'm just trying to be pragmatic and do
the minimum we could get away with, right?
If you can do a discovery phase go for
it, but
oftentimes you don't get the opportunity.
And the truth is,
at the beginning of projects,
you often don't know what
the right questions to ask are.
I never do, perhaps I'm just rubbish.
[LAUGH] But the truth is, until you get
into the weeds of working on a project,
you don't really know what exactly
you need answers to, right?
And things don't always
occur to you upfront.
I was working on a project recently and
I was doing prototyping and
going, I actually don't
know whether they think that users think
that this is more important than this.
Which of these two tasks do
they do the most often, right?
And which one do they want?
And I didn't know.
And I'd done a discovery phase, and
for some reason that hadn't come out.
So that's when you need to do the testing,
is when the question is
fresh in your mind, right?
Also, use it as a great way
of resolving disagreements.
This is the time that I always do testing,
is when the moment comes,
people start disagreeing with one another.
Any opportunity, where people disagree,
that's a chance to do usability testing or
user testing.
So, questions like, does it work?
Most stakeholders will go,
I don't think this is gonna work, right?
They don't really know why, okay?
And you could get into this debate of
trying to prove to them that it will work,
or you could even try and reason them
round and/or ask them why they think it
won't work and all the rest of it.
Instead of doing that, use it,
say, well, let's find out, right,
because it's an excuse to test much better
than getting into a debate with them,
or the kind of which is better?
One stakeholder has one idea, another has
another idea, test it, let's find out.
And then the final one is,
will users like it, right?
So design is so subjective,
or certainly aesthetic
design is so objective, and so subjective.
So you wanna test that stuff, right?
You wanna put it in front of people and
test it rather than,
one stakeholders saying, he wants it
to be blue because he's always loved.
Blue is the corporate color, but
then another executive goes, well,
I really don't like that shade of blue.
And it turns out to be because his auntie
had curtains that were that shade of blue
and he hated his auntie.
You think I'm joking, but
things like that do happen.
And then so
they have an argument with one another and
you end up with insipid green or
something.
Ridiculous scenario, put it in front of
users, let them choose, let them decide.
So resolving disagreements,
that's when you wanna go in for testing.
And then also where the information
that you've inappropriate,
is not the right word, right,
it sound like it's dirty.
Rude, when somebody says it's something
inappropriate, do some testing, know.
When people give you information that
actually isn't relevant or right, or
you've got concerns about it,
that's a good opportunity to test.
So, a common one is, yeah,
we did personas, here's our personas.
When did you do them?
2017, I think it was, right?
Okay, well, maybe we need to check that
it's still relevant enough to date,
or where people give you
biased information, right?
So you're often presented
with survey results, and
you look through the questions and you go,
well, that was a loaded question, right?
No wonder they got that answer.
So that's another opportunity to go back
and say, well, perhaps we ought to just
double check this, or you'll be given
information that's just unfit for purpose.
So personas are a great
example of that actually.
And often marketing teams will go,
yeah, we did personas and
they give you personas and it's like,
this person reads the New York Times and
drives an Audi and
has 2.3 children and a dog, right?
Well, that doesn't really help me
as a UX professional [LAUGH] right?
So in those situations, you're gonna need
to do different types of user research.
So those are all opportunities
to do research, but
the kind of general rule is test early,
test often, right?
Don't save up your testing,
I mean, one of the kind of go
to books in the field of user experience
design is Steve Craig's book,
Don't Make Me Think, right,
which is a superb book.
And he wrote a follow up called
Rocket Surgery Made Easy,
which is really good as well.
It's actually very pragmatic
about introducing facilitated
usability testing into an organization
without taking a lot of time or effort.
But one of the diagrams from
his book is this one, right?
Actually, the more rounds of testing,
the more problems you're going to uncover.
And the reason being is because of users
will get stuck on the first round of
testing, and they won't be able to
progress far enough to find some of
the deeper problems in the site.
But if you then go away and fix those
problems and testing again, then you'll
uncover more problems that are deeper
in the site or the application, right?
So actually more rounds of
testing often work better, but
each round can be more lightweight.
So instead of testing eight
users in one round of testing,
you test three users twice or
three times, right, and
then ultimately you'll find
more problems that way.
Not only does it catch more issues,
it also hides the cost, right?
Because if you're doing lots of little
bits spread out through the project,
people are less likely to
notice the new turning around.
And say, well, we need to Stop the project
for two weeks while we organize a big,
massive round of testing
at the end of the project.
Where then the results come back and
everybody goes, well,
it's too late to fix all that now, right?
So testing early and often.
So in terms of testing earlier, there
are kind of several key reasons for this.
First of all, it's cheaper to fix
because the earlier you find a problem
that it's not been developed yet,
it's probably in a prototype phase or
where it's easy and
cheaper to fix the problem.
Also fixing a problem earlier is faster
to do, which means that the whole project
gets to market faster, and then finally,
it's easier to adjust, right?
So if you've got find a problem earlier,
it's much easier to pivot and adjust based
on the feedback than it is once you've
sunk a big cost into the project.
So a lot of the time, I'm doing
testing when I'm designing, right?
And I'm producing mock-ups like this one.
So you end up with a kind of page mock-up
of what your application might only
be a single page, right?
And these are great times to get in
there doing testing straightaway.
And the tests are really easy,
it's like, we're testing do they get it?
Do they understand what
the website is about, right?
Do they know how to navigate it?
And can they see it?
Can they see the call to action or
some specific thing?
So when clients go,
we need to make the logo bigger,
is cuz they're worried that people
won't see the branding, right?
Well, I'm not sure actually matters,
but anyway, set that aside,
you can prove the logo's bigger enough
by doing a little bit of testing.
Can they see the logo?
Yes, they can.
And then do they like it?
So those are the main questions
I'm looking to answer
in the design phase most of the time.
Not particularly mind blowing
complicated questions, are they, right?
But those are the main
ones you're gonna answer.
During the build, once you've built pages
and you've got something that's more
interactive, then the questions become
things like, can they find it, right?
Does it answer their question?
It's another common one, so
oftentimes people are going to websites
looking for answers to questions.
So, does it answer their question?
And can they use it if it's
got an interactive component?
That is essentially all that
you need to know, right?
It's just different
variations of that question.
And then when it comes to,
once you've launched the website, right?
So what do you need to know there?
Well, again,
it's very simple, you need to know,
where are people dropping out of the site?
What's stopping them from completing
their tasks that they're trying to do?
How can we increase conversion?
And what will work better, this new
version of it or the existing version?
That's basically what it boils down to.
So all of our testing is basically
answering questions, right?
Once we get into that mindset of whenever
there's a question, run a bit of testing,
it goes so much smoother.